All right let's switch over to our terminal
And here let's generate new controller
here it's going to be vote question controller
OK
Let's open vote
Question controller.
Let's import the question model namespace
and here let's firstly define a constructor.
And here we need to call auth middleware because
a user that's going to vote needs to sign in
and then we can define in invoke method define an
argument which type-hint to question instance.
and hear let's capture the vote by calling laravel
request helper function and then vote
and then we can assign it into a variable
here I want to make sure that the vote is integer.
Next we need to get the current answer and we can do by calling
laravel auth helper
and then call user
method to actually get the current user instance.
And then we can call vote question pass in
the question instance in the first argument.
And then pass the vote which we capture
from the request in the second argument.
And lastly we can refresh the page we're calling return back.
Now we can open web.php
and here we define a new route for voting the question.
And here we can say route post the uri will be questions question
vote and the handler is vote question
controller
Here we are using a single action controller
So here we don't need to specify the method.
Lastly let's open question
show.blade.php
here let's add off class if the user hasn't sign in.
We can do that like this
here we can copy this on click
and paste here.
And then change the id to
vote question.
question Id let's also copy the form
and then paste here.
And change the id to up vote question
question id
and also change the action to questions
question id vote
here we don't need this to delete method so let's remove it
Instead we need to send a value to represent the vote up
So here we call request vote
so lets define a hidden input
and then call it vote then the value will be one.
Let's also change this
to
question votes count
now
let's also make chance to vote down button
So let's firstly copy this class
and then paste here.
also the on click
change the id to down vote question
let's also copy the form
and then paste here.
And then change the id to down vote
question and hear the vote will be a -1
All right let's save all these
and hopefully the vote buttons are working.
Let's switch over to our browser
let's randomly select a question
and here
the votes count is zero
Let me hit the vote up
Now the number increasing. If I hit this vote down
now the number decreasing.
You may be asking why the number
increasing from zero to two or a vice versa.
Let me show you
in phpmyadmin let's
see the questions.
So here "optio amet"
bla bla bla
I'm sure the ID is 6
now if I
see here the question with id six has two votes.
The first one is negative and another is positive
one. So plus one plus negative one will return zero.
Now let me see the user
So here I log in as "Jameson Bogan"
Jameson Bogan has ID one and here
id one negative.
So when I clicked the vote up it update
the existing vote from -1 to 1.
So one plus one will result two.
So I hope it makes sense to you.
Let me try another question
If I hit this vote up button
it will be zero
OK
Great
Now our vote question controls working perfectly.